---
layout: article
title:  "Collections as Data Cohort 1 Call for Proposals"
date:   2018-8-8 
teaser: "Collections as Data Cohort 1 Call for Proposals"
---
---

Collections as Data: Part to Whole is pleased to announce the [**cohort 1 call for proposals**](https://collectionsasdata.github.io/part2whole/cfp/). 

The project will **fund and programmatically support** two collections as data cohorts. Cohorts will be comprised of project teams jointly led by librarians and disciplinary scholars.

Cohort teams will develop models that support collections as data implementation and holistic reconceptualization of services and roles that support scholarly use. Collections as data produced by project activity will exhibit high research value, demonstrate the capacity to serve underrepresented communities, represent a diversity of content types, languages, and descriptive practices, and arise from a range of institutional contexts.

We look forward to working with you and welcome any questions that you might have as you consider putting a proposal forward. Feel free to contact any member of the team directly or by using this [**form**](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdUpy6FxMSxpM814v03-uscvoFs6yhHASq9z3SVpNdkkqYA0w/viewform?usp=sf_link). 

Thomas Padilla (University of Nevada Las Vegas)

Hannah Scates Kettler (University of Iowa)

Laurie Allen (University of Pennsylvania)

Stewart Varner (University of Pennsylvania)

### Code of Conduct

All project activity, both in person and online, aims to foster a welcoming and inclusive experience for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age, religion, nationality, or political beliefs. Harassment of participants will not be tolerated in any form. Harassment includes any behavior that participants find intimidating, hostile or offensive. Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately. Please contact any member of the project team if you have concerns.