---
layout: article
title:  "💫 Spark in the Dark 💫"
date:   2020-12-04 
teaser: "Cohort 1 projects complete"
---
---
As we move through a difficult year, it is important to highlight that there are things to celebrate. 

We are proud to share Collections as Data: Part to Whole Cohort 1 deliverables. Cohort 1 includes teams from the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, Carnegie Museum of Art, University of Denver, Weeksville Heritage Center, University of Pittsburgh, and Northwestern University. Final reports present lessons learned and links to code, data, documentation, and more. We could not have imagined a better set of compassionate, brilliant, and inspiring people to work with for this first cohort. In difficult times, they have demonstrated unwavering commitments to each other and their communities. 

Our intention is that these six teams, and the six teams that follow them, will define and develop a range of approaches that support collections as data implementation and use. We believe that the viability of collections as data work depends on the development of approaches that map to diverse institutional contexts, resource assumptions, and community commitments. There is no singular collections as data model and we feel that cultivating diversity in approach continues to show promise. 

Cohort 1 has dedicated critical thought and work to the potential of collections as data. 

We thank them for this spark in the dark. 

Thomas, Hannah, Stewart, Yasmeen 

===

**Collections as Data: Redefining Creators, Users, and Stewards of the Charles “Teenie” Harris Photographic Archival Collection**

Carnegie Museum of Art

Dominique Luster, Charlene Foggie-Barnett, Ed Motznik, Samantha Ticknor

* final report

**On the Books: Jim Crow and Algorithms of Resistance**

University of North Carolina Chapel Hill

María R. Estorino, Amanda Henley, Matt Jansen, Lorin Bruckner, Sarah Carrier, William Sturkey

* final report
* white paper

**Linking Lost Jazz Shrines**

Weeksville Heritage Center

Obden Mondésir, Zakiya Collier, Sarah Adams, M. Cristina Pattuelli

* final report

**Uncovering Health History: Transcribing and Publishing Early Twentieth-Century Tuberculosis Patient Records as Data**

University of Denver

Kim Pham, Kevin Clair, Jack Maness, Jeanne Abrams, Fernando Reyes, Jeff Rynhart, Alice Tarrant

* final report

**The Native American Educational Services College Digital Library Project**

Northwestern University

Josh Honn, Kelly Wisecup, John Dorr, Dorene Wiese, Melanie Cloud, Allison Conner

* final report
* white paper

**From Collection Records to Data Layers: A Critical Experiment in Collaborative Practice**

University of Pittsburgh

Tyrica Terry Kapral, Aaron Brenner, Matthew J. Lavin, Gesina Philips

* final report





### Code of Conduct

All project activity, both in person and online, aims to foster a welcoming and inclusive experience for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age, religion, nationality, or political beliefs. Harassment of participants will not be tolerated in any form. Harassment includes any behavior that participants find intimidating, hostile or offensive. Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately. Please contact any member of the project team if you have concerns.
